relation,sentence_1,sentence_2
concession,Energetic and concrete action has been taken in Colombia during the past 60 days against the mafiosi of the drug trade,but it has not been sufficiently effective,
explanation-argumentative,because, unfortunately it came too late.
elaboration-additional-e,Ten years ago, the newspaper El Espectador,
Same-Unit,the newspaper El Espectador,of which my brother Guillermo was editor,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,of which my brother Guillermo was editor,began warning of the rise of the drug mafias and of their leaders' aspirations
Same-Unit,to control Colombian politics, especially the Congress.
concession-e,Then,when it would have been easier to resist them,
consequence-s,nothing was done,and my brother was murdered by the drug mafias three years ago.
means,The most ruthless dictatorships have not censored their press more brutally than the drug mafias censor Colombia's.,The censorship is enforced through terrorism and assassination.
evidence,In the past 10 years about 50 journalists have been silenced forever, murdered.
cause,Within the past two months a bomb exploded in the offices of the El Espectador in Bogota,destroying a major part of its installations and equipment.
cause,And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed,and its installations destroyed.
summary-s,Journalists and their families are constantly threatened,as are the newspaper distribution outlets.
List,Distribution centers are bombed,and advertisers are intimidated.
restatement,and advertisers are intimidated.,Censorship is imposed by terrorism.
Problem-Solution,If the Colombian media accept this new and hideous censorship
condition,there is little doubt,that the drug mafia's terrorism someday will extend to all the newspapers
elaboration-object-attribute-e,that the drug mafia's terrorism someday will extend to all the newspapers,published in the free world.
Problem-Solution,The solidarity of the uncensored media world-wide against drug terrorism is the only way,press freedom can survive.
Topic-Drift,The American people and their government also woke up too late to the menace,drugs posed to the moral structure of their country.
elaboration-additional,Even now, the American attack upon this tremendous problem is timid in relation to the magnitude of the threat.
example,I can attest,that a recent Colombian visitor to the U.S. was offered drugs three times in the few blocks' walk between Grand Central Terminal
attribution,that a recent Colombian visitor to the U.S. was offered drugs three times in the few blocks' walk between Grand Central Terminal,and the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in midtown Manhattan.
elaboration-general-specific-e,Colombia alone,-- its government, its people, its newspapers--
Same-Unit,Colombia alone,does not have the capacity
elaboration-object-attribute-e,does not have the capacity,to fight this battle successfully.
Problem-Solution,All drug-consuming countries must jointly decide to combat and punish the consumers,and distributors of drugs.
elaboration-general-specific
The U.S., as the major drug consumer, should lead this joint effort.
interpretation-s,Reduction, if not the total cessation, of drug consumption is the requirement for victory.
elaboration-additional,if not the total cessation,of drug consumption is the requirement for victory.
purpose,Much is being done in Colombia,to fight the drug cartel mafia.
evidence,Luxurious homes and ranches have been raided by the military authorities,and sophisticated
List,and sophisticated,and powerful communications equipment have been seized.
List,More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports,and a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated.
List,The military has also captured enormous arsenals of powerful and sophisticated weapons,explosives and other war-like materiel.
concession,but on the other hand,none of the key drug barons have been captured.
elaboration-additional,Much has been accomplished,and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army
elaboration-additional,What is of much more importance to the Colombian economy,than the supposed benefits of laundered drug money is higher prices for Colombia 's legitimate products.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,There has been a lot of talk,that a large portion of the Colombian economy is sustained by the laundering of drug money.
evaluation-s,In my opinion,this is not true.
evidence,Laundered drug money has served only to increase,unrealistically
concession,Laundered drug money has served only to increase,unrealistically,
List,unrealistically,the price of real estate
cause,the price of real estate,creating serious problems for low-income people
elaboration-object-attribute-e,creating serious problems for low-income people,who aspire to own their own homes.
List,to buy expensive cars,airplanes
List,airplanes,launches
List,launches,and nightclubs
purpose,Drug money has also gone,to buy expensive cars
elaboration-object-attribute-e,to buy expensive cars,where drugs are consumed.
elaboration-additional,But most of the drug money is kept in investments,and in financial institutions outside Colombia.
evidence,In fact,the cooperation of those financial institutions is essential to the success of the drug battle.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,,The price of coffee has gone down almost 45% since the beginning of the year,to the lowest level
Same-Unit,to the lowest level,since the Great Depression.
elaboration-additional,since the Great Depression.,Market conditions point to even lower prices next year.
consequence-n,As a result,Colombia will earn $500 million less from its coffee this year than last.
consequence-n,The 27-year-old coffee cartel had to be formally dissolved this summer.,and this tempts them to contemplate substituting coca crops for coffee.
Same-Unit,and this tempts them to contemplate substituting coca crops for coffee.,Our coffee growers face reductions in their income
elaboration-general-specific-e,U.S. interests occasionally try to impose barriers to the import of another important Colombian export,-- cut flowers --
Same-Unit,-- cut flowers --,into the American market.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,A just price and an open market,for what Colombian produces and exports
Same-Unit,for what Colombian produces and exports,should be the policy of the U.S.
comment,should be the policy of the U.S.,I take advantage of this opportunity
purpose,given to me by The Wall Street Journal,to make a plea to the millions of readers of this newspaper,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,to make a plea to the millions of readers of this newspaper,to become soldiers
elaboration-object-attribute-e,to become soldiers,dedicated to the fight against the use of drugs.
elaboration-general-specific,Each gram of cocaine consumed is a deadly bullet against those in our country,and in the rest of the world
elaboration-object-attribute-e,and in the rest of the world,who fight this terrible scourge.
List,who fight this terrible scourge.,A crusade of NO to the consumption of drugs is imperative.
TextualOrganization,Mr. Cano is president of El Espectador,a newspaper
elaboration-object-attribute-e,a newspaper,founded by
concession,Nothing was going to hold up the long-delayed settlement of Britton vs. Thomasini.,Not even an earthquake.
temporal-after,On the afternoon of Oct. 17,after hours of haggling with five insurance-claims adjusters
purpose,as Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes,so he could give final approval,
reason,over settling a toxic-waste suit,four lawyers had an agreement in hand.
Same-Unit,the major earthquake struck,its epicenter not far from his courtroom in Redwood City Calif.
consequence-s,the major earthquake struck,The walls shook;
List,the building rocked.,For a while
Same-Unit,For a while,it looked like the deal
antithesis,it looked like the deal,-- not to mention the courtroom itself --
Same-Unit,-- not to mention the courtroom itself --,was on the verge of collapse.
result,I was shaking the whole time.,A 10-gallon water cooler had toppled onto the floor,
attribution,Quick,let's put this on the record,'
attribution,The judge came out,and said,
attribution,says Sandy Bettencourt,the judge's court reporter.
comment,`NOW?',I said,
List,Lights flickered on and off;,plaster dropped from the ceiling,
List,the walls still shook,and an evacuation alarm blared outside.
elaboration-process-step,and an evacuation alarm blared outside.,The four lawyers climbed out from under a table.
attribution,Let's close the door,said the judge
List,said the judge,as he climbed to his bench.
background,At stake was an $80,000 settlement,involving who should pay what share of cleanup costs at the site of a former gas station,
elaboration-additional,involving who should pay what share of cleanup costs at the site of a former gas station,where underground fuel tanks had leaked
elaboration-object-attribute-e,where underground fuel tanks had leaked,and contaminated the soil.
Same-Unit,and contaminated the soil.,And the lawyers were just as eager as the judge to wrap it up.
comment,And the lawyers were just as eager as the judge to wrap it up.,We were never going to get these insurance companies to agree again,
attribution,We were never going to get these insurance companies to agree again,says John V. Trump, a San Francisco defense lawyer in the case.
restatement,Indeed,the insurance adjusters had already bolted out of the courtroom.
concession,the insurance adjusters had already bolted out of the courtroom.,The lawyers went to work anyway,
attribution,The lawyers went to work anyway,that the proceeding was taking place during a major earthquake.
temporal-after,Ten minutes later, it was done.
concession,an attorney for Fireman's Fund,he was rattled
List,For the record, Jeffrey Kaufman,
List,an attorney for Fireman's Fund, said
attribution,My belief is always,you read it into the record,
condition,-- both literally and figuratively.,if you've got a settlement,
attribution,if you've got a settlement,says Judge Jenkins,
elaboration-object-attribute,says Judge Jenkins,now known in his courthouse as Shake'Em Down Jenkins.
antithesis,you read it into the record,The insurance adjusters think differently.
List,if it was World War III or what,I didn't know
attribution,I didn't know,says Melanie Carvain of Morristown N.J.
attribution,says Melanie Carvain of Morristown N.J.,Reading the settlement into the record was the last thing on my mind.
elaboration-additional,Reading the settlement into the record was the last thing on my mind.,Toni Johnson pulls a tape measure across the front of what was once a stately Victorian home.
List,A deep trench now runs along its north wall,exposed
elaboration-object-attribute-e
consequence-s,when the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week's earthquake.
List,A side porch was ripped away.,The chimney is a pile of bricks on the front lawn.
elaboration-additional,The chimney is a pile of bricks on the front lawn.,The remainder of the house leans precariously against a sturdy oak tree.
Same-Unit,The petite, 29-year-old Ms. Johnson,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,29-year-old Ms. Johnson,dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt
circumstance,as she slogs through the steady afternoon rain,is a claims adjuster with Aetna Life &amp
Same-Unit,is a claims adjuster with Aetna Life &amp; Casualty.
elaboration-additional,She has been on the move almost incessantly since last Thursday,
circumstance,She has been on the move almost incessantly since last Thursday,when an army of adjusters,
elaboration-additional-e,when an army of adjusters,employed by major insurers,
purpose,invaded the San Francisco area,to help policyholders sift through the rubble and restore some order to their lives.
elaboration-additional,Equipped with cellular telephones,laptop computers,
circumstance,laptop computers,calculators and a pack of blank checks,
purpose,they parcel out money,so their clients can find temporary living quarters,
List,buy food,replace lost clothing,
List,repair broken water heaters,and replaster walls.
elaboration-additional,and replaster walls.,and clear sites for future construction.
purpose,Some of the funds will used,to demolish unstable buildings
elaboration-additional,Many adjusters are authorized to write checks for amounts up to $100,000 on the spot.,They don't flinch at writing them.
example,They don't flinch at writing them.,That's my job
elaboration-object-attribute-e,That's my job,-- get {policyholders} what they're entitled to,
attribution,says Bill Schaeffer, a claims supervisor
elaboration-additional-e,a claims supervisor,who flew in from Aetna 's Bridgeport Conn. office.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,The Victorian house,that Ms. Johnson is inspecting
Same-Unit,that Ms. Johnson is inspecting,has been deemed unsafe by town officials.
elaboration-additional-e,But she asks a workman,toting the bricks from the lawn
Same-Unit,toting the bricks from the lawn,to give her a boost through an open first-floor window.
Sequence,Once inside,she spends nearly four hours
manner,she spends nearly four hours,measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house
elaboration-additional,measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house,to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it.
enablement,to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it.,gathering enough information
elaboration-additional,She snaps photos of the buckled floors and the plaster,that has fallen away from the walls.
Temporal-Same-Time,While she works inside,a tenant returns with several friends
purpose,a tenant returns with several friends,to collect furniture and clothing.
elaboration-additional,One of the friends sweeps broken dishes and shattered glass from a countertop,and starts to pack what can be salvaged from the kitchen.
List,Others grab books, records
List,photo albums,sofas
elaboration-additional,sofas,and chairs,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,working frantically in the fear,that an aftershock will jolt the house again.
elaboration-additional,The owners, William and Margie Hammack,
explanation-argumentative,William, and Margie Hammack,are luckier than many others.
List,and Margie Hammack,are luckier than many others.
elaboration-additional-e,A few years ago, Mrs. Hammack insisted on buying earthquake insurance for this house,
concession,Mrs. Hammack insisted on buying earthquake insurance for this house,which had been converted into apartments.
List,Only about 20% of California home,and business owners carried earthquake coverage.
The Hammacks' own home, also in Los Gatos, suffered comparatively minor damage.
elaboration-additional,The Hammacks' own home, also in Los Gatos,
Same-Unit,also in Los Gatos, suffered comparatively minor damage.
elaboration-additional-e,Ms. Johnson,who works out of Aetna's office in Walnut Creek, an East Bay suburb,
Same-Unit,an East Bay suburb,is awed by the earthquake's destructive force.
elaboration-additional,is awed by the earthquake's destructive force.,It really brings you down to a human level,
attribution,It really brings you down to a human level,she says.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,It's hard to accept all the suffering,people are going through,
Contrast,people are going through,but you have to.
condition,you can't do your job.,If you don't,
circumstance,For Aetna and other insurers,the San Francisco earthquake hit
temporal-same-time,when resources in the field already were stretched.,Most companies still are trying to sort through the wreckage
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Most companies still are trying to sort through the wreckage,caused by Hurricane Hugo in the Carolinas last month.
example,Aetna,which has nearly 3,000 adjusters,
Same-Unit,had deployed about 750 of them in Charlotte, Columbia, and Charleston.
elaboration-additional,Columbia,and Charleston.
attribution,the insurer will still be processing claims from that storm through December.,caused by Hurricane Hugo in the Carolinas last month
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Adjusters,who had been working on the East Coast
Same-Unit,who had been working on the East Coast,say
hypothetical,Adjusters say,It could take six to nine months to handle the earthquake-related claims.
temporal-same-time,When the earthquake rocked northern California last week,Aetna senior claims executives from the San Francisco area were at the company 's Hartford Conn.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Aetna senior claims executives from the San Francisco area were at the company 's Hartford Conn.,headquarters for additional training
elaboration-set-member-e,headquarters for additional training,on how to handle major catastrophes,
elaboration-additional,on how to handle major catastrophes,including earthquakes.
reason,Since commercial airline flights were disrupted,the company chartered three planes
purpose,the company chartered three planes,to fly these executives back to the West Coast
List,and bring along portable computers,cellular phones and some claims adjusters.
reason,Aetna pulled together a team of its most experienced claims adjusters from around the country.,Because of the difficulty
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Because of the difficulty,of assessing the damages
elaboration-object-attribute-e,of assessing damages,caused by the earthquake,
Contrast,Even so,few had ever dealt with an earthquake.
temporal-afterSome adjusters, like Alan Singer of San Diego,
List,had been working in Charleston for nearly four weeks.,He returned home last Thursday,
List,packed a bag with fresh clothes,and reported for duty Friday in Walnut Creek.
elaboration-additional,and reported for duty Friday in Walnut Creek.Offices were set up in San Francisco and San Jose.
attribution,In a few instances, Aetna knew
temporal-before,it would probably be shelling out big bucks,even before a client called or faxed in a claim.
example,For example,officials at Walnut Creek office learned
Same-Unit,that the Amfac Hotel near the San Francisco airport,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,which is insured by Aetna,was badly damaged
Temporal-Same-Time,was badly damaged,when they saw it on network television news.
elaboration-additional,The secret,to being a good adjuster
elaboration-object-attribute-e,to being a good adjuster,is counting,
attribution,says Gerardo Rodriguez, an Aetna adjuster from Santa Ana.
elaboration-additional,You have to count everything.,an Aetna adjuster from Santa Ana.
elaboration-general-specific,Adjusters must count the number of bathrooms,balconies
elaboration-additional,fireplaces,chimneys
elaboration-additional,microwaves,and dishwashers.
But they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors, wallcoverings, roofing and siding,
purpose,But they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors,roofing and siding
elaboration-additional,roofing,and siding
purpose,But they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors,to come up with a total value for a house.
elaboration-additional,they must think in terms of sheetrock by the square foot,carpeting by the square yard,
elaboration-additional,wallpaper by the roll, molding by the linear foot.
elaboration-additional,To do that,Using a calculator and a unit-price guide for such jobs as painting,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Using a calculator and a unit-price guide for such jobs as painting,plumbing and roofing in each major region of the country,
elaboration-additional,adjusters can figure out the value of a home in today's market,and what it would cost
elaboration-additional,and what it would cost,to rebuild it.
Contrast,to rebuild it.,Sometimes repairs are out of the question.
circumstance,When Aetna adjuster Bill Schaeffer visited a retired couple in Oakland last Thursday,he found them living in a mobile home
elaboration-object-attribute-e,he found them living in a mobile home,parked in front of their yard.
elaboration-additional-e,The house itself,located about 50 yards from the collapsed section of double-decker highway Interstate 880,
Same-Unit,The house itself,was pushed about four feet off its foundation
Sequence,was pushed about four feet off its foundation,and then collapsed into its basement.
Sequence,and then collapsed into its basement.The next day,
elaboration-additional,The next day,Mr. Schaeffer presented the couple with a check for $151,000
purpose,Mr. Schaeffer presented the couple with a check for $151,000,to help them build a new home in the same neighborhood.
elaboration-additional,,Mr. Schaeffer presented the couple with a check for $151,000,He also is working with a real-estate agent
purpose,He also is working with a real-estate agent,to help find them an apartment
elaboration-object-attribute-e,He also is working with a real-estate agent,to rent
temporal-same-time,He also is working with a real-estate agent,while their home is being built.
circumstance,Many of the adjusters,employed by Aetna and other insurers
Sequence,Many of the adjusters,have some experience with construction work or carpentry.
consequence-n,have some experience with construction work or carpentry.,But such skills were alien to Toni Johnson.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Four years ago,she was managing a film-processing shop
List,she was managing a film-processing shop,and was totally bored.
attribution,she was managing a film-processing shop,A friend mentioned
condition,A friend mentioned,that she might want to look into a position at Aetna,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,that she might want to look into a position at Aetna,if she was interested in a job
elaboration-additional-e,if she was interested in a job,that would constantly challenge her.
List,She signed up,starting as an inside adjuster,
List,who settles minor claims,and does a lot of work by phone.
Sequence,A year later,she moved to the commercial property claims division.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,She spent a month at an Aetna school in Gettysburg,Pa.
elaboration-set-member-e,learning all about the construction trade,including masonry,
Sequence,including masonry,plumbing and electrical wiring.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,That was followed by three months at the Aetna Institute in Hartford,where she was immersed in learning how to read,
evidence,and interpret policies.,Her new line of work has some perils.
circumstance,Recently,a contractor saved her from falling three stories
elaboration-object-attribute-e,as she investigated what remained of an old Victorian house,torched by an arsonist.
elaboration-additional,I owe that contractor.,I really do,
elaboration-additional
attribution,I owe that contractor,she says.
oral-Same-Time,the house begins to creak,and sway.
temporal-same-time,the house begins to creak,As Ms. Johnson stands outside the Hammack house
temporal-after,the house begins to creak,and sway.
 Temporal-Same-Time,the house begins to creak,The ground shakes underneath her.
explanation-argumentative,It is an aftershock,one of about 2,000 since the earthquake,
consequence-s,one of about 2,000 since the earthquake,and it makes her uneasy.
Sequence,The next day,she jumps at the slightest noise.
circumstance-e,she jumps at the slightest noise.,as she prepares a $10,000 check for the Hammacks,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,as she prepares a $10,000 check for the Hammacks,which will cover the cost
List,of demolishing the house,and clearing away the debris,
comment,she admits,that venturing inside the Hammacks' house the previous day wasn't such a great idea
attribution,On further reflection,she admits
elaboration-additional,During her second meeting with the Hammacks,Ms. Johnson reviews exactly what their policy covers.
circumstance,They would like to retrieve some appliances on the second floor,if it's safe to venture inside.
attribution,but wonder,Ms. Johnson tells them
Same-Unit,that,their policy covers the replacement cost.
condition-e,their policy covers the replacement cost.,if the appliances can't be salvaged,
Question-Answer,Mr. Hammack is eager to know,what Aetna will pay for the house,
elaboration-object-attribute-e,that Aetna will pay for the house,which has to come down.
Question-Answer,When will I get that check for a million dollars?,The adjuster hadn't completed all the calculations
antithesis,The adjuster hadn't completed all the calculations,but says
attribution,When will I get that check for a million dollars?,he jokes.
elaboration-general-specific-e,In this case,that's about $250,000.
attribution,It suddenly dawns on Mr. Hammack,that rebuilding the house in Los Gatos
hypothetical,that rebuilding the house in Los Gatos,an affluent community in Santa Clara County,
comparison,may cost,more than Aetna's policy will pay.
attribution,We can lose money on this,he says.
elaboration-additional,he says.,And you didn't want me to buy earthquake insurance,
attribution,And you didn't want me to buy earthquake insurance,says Mrs. Hammack,
List,reaching across the table,and gently tapping his hand.
List,Earthquake insurance costs about $100000,to $250000 annually for every $1,000 of value,
condition,and high deductibles mean it generally pays,only when there is a catastrophe.
attribution,So many Californians believe,they can get by
circumstance,they can get by,without it.
elaboration-additional,Even Ms. Johnson herself made that assumption.,they can get by without it.
attribution,I always knew,that the ` Big One ' was coming,
Contrast,that the ` Big One ' was coming,but not during my lifetime,
attribution,but not during my lifetime,she says.
attribution,Now she says,she's thinking of contacting her own insurance agent.
elaboration-additional,For Ms. Johnson,dealing with the earthquake has been more than just a work experience.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,She lives in Oakland,a community
evidence,hit hard by the earthquake.,She didn't have hot water for five days.
elaboration-object-attribute-e,The apartment,she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister
Same-Unit,she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister,was rattled,
List,books,and crystal hit the floor,
antithesis,and crystal hit the floor,but nothing was severely damaged.
elaboration-additional,Toni had a different job.,
attribution,Her sister, Cynthia wishes
attribution,We worry about her out there,Cynthia says.
evidence,Cynthia says.,but stopped abruptly.
circumstance,Last Sunday, Ms. Johnson finally got a chance
elaboration-object-attribute-e,Ms. Johnson finally got a chance,to water her plants,
reason,I realized,I couldn't waste this water
